(light music)
And we're gonna pull in the list
of currently slicing pizzas and list
of currently slicing slice masters into the homepage.
Now this is, I don't know if it's necessarily a downside,
but it's certainly a limitation of Gatsby in that,
that data is very time sensitive,
meaning that it could change in a second,
and the website needed to be updated within a second.
So that data is probably not best suited
for running it through the Gatsby graph QL.
Why?
Because Gatsby is built at build time.
And as soon as you build the website,
whoever was slicing and whatever pizzas
were currently in the case at the time of build time,
that's the data that will sit on the website
forever until the site is regenerated.
And certainly you could regenerate the website every single
time that any of that data changes,
you could go into a whatever your database is.
And there's probably some sort of web hook
that will trigger a rebuild or something like that.
But,
it makes more sense to
fetch that data at client side,
rather than to fetch that data at build time.
And currently Gatsby doesn't have an API.
Meaning that there's only an API at build time.
And then when you launch your website,
there's no graph QL API that we can hit.
So we have to go directly to the source of the data
from the client side, meaning from the browser.
And I'm going to show you how to do that.
And it's a pretty common thing that you want to do.
I bet, I don't know.
I don't have any insight to this, but I bet at some point,
Gatsby will roll out some sort of hosted graph QL,
where you can like maybe put like a little,
you have like a graph QL query,
and there's probably some sort of tag you could add
to it called refetch on client meaning that you,
you do it at build time,
but then when it hits the front end you could,
you could re fetch that data.
And even Gatsby's docs has instructions on how to fetch it
at build time as well as how to fetch it on graph QL.
But if that's the case, then you're writing a Gatsby
graph QL query, and the sanity graph QL query,
which aren't exactly the same thing.
And that's just not a great way.
So we are going to be building it entirely client side,
meaning that when you load the page,
it will go and fetch it.
So if I go to Gatsby dot pizza, you'll see here.
Loading, loading, loading.
And second later they boom,
they all come in and everything is loaded on up.
Cool.
So let's go to a backdoor at Gatsby,
and let's open up our index.js page.
And let's just get rid of everything in here.
Give herself a div with a class of center inside of that,
we'll have an h1 tag that says,
the best pizza downtown and that paragraph,
open 11:00 AM to 11:00 PM every
single day.
And you could, you could go into your store settings
and make inputs for both of these things
and be able to pull them in.
So maybe that something that you want to, you want to do,
or you could also pull this data from your Gatsby config
so that data could live a couple of different places.
I'm just going to hard code it in here,
but that decision is up to you.
All right, good.
Then we're going to have a grid.
So that's just a div and then we'll have our slice masters.
Actually, let's just make the components.
Now we'll call it currently slicing,
and we have a hot slices component.
And then we'll go ahead and make those two.
So I'll say a function currently slicing return div,
and then let's just put a paragraph
that has the name of that component in it.
And we'll go to our homepage,
there we go currently slicing and hot slices.
Cool.
Next let's let's work on fetching the data from that.
So like where do we get our data from?
Well if we can't get it from our Gatsby graph QL,
we have to get it straight from sanity.
So the way you know what the URL of your sanity endpoint is,
is you can go to your,
your sanity folder and you can quit
the process if you have it.
And you simply just run sanity graph QL list.
And what that will do is it's going to list
all of the different domains that you have.
Oh, hi.
Daddy, can you fix this?
Yeah, I'm just working right now.
Can you give me 10 minutes?
I know it, it's broken.
What is it?
The net.
It broke?
Oh, the net.
Yeah, I ran over it with the lawnmower.
Sorry, we'll have to get a new one.
Did you leave it out?
Daddy.
I'm just recording.
Thanks.
It's off and it's broke.
Sorry, I ran over the butterfly net
with the lawnmower.
Anyways, Sandy graph QL list.
It will give you a URL to your graph QL database.
And you can click on that, open it up.
And this is going to give you your sanity graph QL.
So there's a little bit of difference
between sanity graph QL and Gatsby graph QL.
So your queries aren't gonna look exactly the same.
Most importantly, it's not going to be sanity all pizza.
It will simply just be all pizza, et cetera, et cetera.
And that is how we can go ahead and do it.
So what we want to do is we're going to make
a custom react hook that's going to go and fetch
the data that we want and store it inside of there.
So we'll go into our sidebar here,
go into our utils folder,
make a new file and we'll call it useLatestData.js
And we'll make a function called use latest data,
and we need hot slices and we need slice masters.
You could make this two separate hooks,
but I'm just going to put it in one
just because it all is on the same page.
And for that, we need two pieces of state.
So it's like const hot slices,
and set hot slices is equal to use state.
We'll go ahead and import use state from react.
There we go.
Oh, look at this.
It require, I guess like the auto import,
if it doesn't see anything that makes it
think it's ESX module it will just use common JS.
So we will import
use state
from react.
There we go.
And second, we'll just duplicate that,
and change the hot slices to slice masters.
And that needs a capital S on it.
Alright, so here's what we'll do is,
we will use a side effect
to fetch
the data from the graph QL endpoint.
Okay, cool.
So we can do a little bit something like this.
We'll say use effect,
and use effect needs to be imported from react.
There it is.
And that takes a function.
And in here,
we will say when the component loads,
fetch the data.
So the use effect is a graph QL, sorry,
it's a react hook that when run,
or when the component mounts,
it will run the code that is inside of here.
That's our mounting.
And then it will also rerun it if any of the data changes.
And in our case, there is no data,
but we just pass in secondary argument,
which is an empty array.
And if we did want to rerun this hook
every single time that maybe like a variable changed,
like a timer, or age, or name, every single time that like,
maybe like the store name changed,
then you want it to rerun this hook
and fetch the data for that store.
Then you could put variables in here in our case,
there's nothing, we only want it to run on,
on the component load.
So we just pass it an empty array.
Okay.
Then we need to go off and fetch the data.
So like, let's, maybe let's try to write a query in here.
So the query is going to be
store.
What is that store settings?
All person, person, at the look at our schema here.
Pizza, topping, person.
That doesn't seem to have my store settings.
Oh maybe, maybe I didn't deploy my graph QL API.
Do I have to redeploy my graph QL API?
We'll say sanity graph QL,
deploy production.
Yeah I think that's what we need.
Do you want enable it?
Yes.
All right so that's the same URL.
Dot API.
And now if I refresh this, will we get,
Hey, look at that store settings.
Okay, cool.
That's what we want.
So capital S store settings,
where the ID is going to be equal to downtown.
Remember that the ID of the store setting,
we manually set it to downtown,
and let's just grab the name from that.
Now, when we run that,
you get downtown store and we should now,
also be able to get the slice masters
that are currently slicing and their name and the,
what was it called?
Hot slices and the
name of the pizza.
So I'll give that a run.
You see, these are the four people
that are currently slicing.
These are the four people that are sorry,
the four slices that are currently in the case.
And if we were to go and delete Jimi Hendrix,
and publish that now rerun it.
Yeah, good, there's only three.
And that's the benefit of,
of doing it in the browser is that as soon
as the data has changed in our sanity backend,
the next time the person that loads that page,
you'll be able to see the updated data,
which is pretty cool.
So that is our URL right here.
And that is our query.
So let's try and fetch that data.
Now we don't need, you don't need any special libraries
or anything to fetch graph QL data,
because at the end of the day,
it's just json and you're sending it off.
So that's what we're going to be doing here.
We will, let's actually take this URL here and at the top,
let's just say const endpoint actually,
did we put it in our environment variable?
No, let's stick it in here.
We'll say Gatsby, Gartsby. (laughs)
That would be a really good, Gartsby.
That'd be like a really good like theme name
or something like that for Gatsby.
But it's going to be Gatsby_graphQL,
endpoint is equal to that.
Okay.
And then in here we can say fetch
and the endpoint
will be process.ENV.Gartsby,
Gatsby underscore, what do we call it?
Graph QL endpoint.
And then there's a bunch of settings
that need to go along with it.
So we need a object as a second argument of fetch.
And that will say the method is post.
'Cause you can't just get graph QL.
And in the case of sanity,
you have to post the data to them,
the headers, which will be the content type.
I guess that has to be capital C, capital T,
is application/json
And then the body
is going to be an object that has a query inside of it.
Now, we can't just pass it a,
an object where it says query like this,
because the data that is posted to this backend
needs to be a string, not an object.
You can't just send an object over the wire.
So what we'll have to do is we say,
json.stringify our settings here.
The query
is going to be in, in our case.
Let's just use back ticks for now,
and I'll show you a little trick in just a second.
So our query will be, and just go ahead and grab this data,
paste it in there and look at it, it's gonna,
the paste is going to look weird,
but I'll show you how to fix that in just a second,
as well as there's going to be no syntax highlighting.
And that will be fixed with the same thing,
however let's just get this working for now.
So when this data hook runs,
create two pieces of state,
go ahead and run fetch
inside of there.
And then when that is done,
we want to set the data to json.
And this is actually a really good use case
for not using async await,
because if you make this function async,
react is going to yell at you.
So rather than having to do another function inside of that,
we'll just use a regular dot then syntax.
So we've got to find the end of this fetch here.
I'm going to click on that.
That's this one right here.
And we'll say dot then, and we get the response.
The response will be in json.
And then we tag in another .then on the end.
It gives us a response.
And then we can to do check for errors.
But what we really want to do is set the data to state,
but let's just console.log, the response.data,
see what workin' with, right?
Like we just,
we just wrote a lot of code and we have no clue
if we goofed up the first line and let's not be a hero,
let's just get this thing working.
Okay, so we wrote this custom hook here.
We should export it from this file.
So export default function use latest data.
Then we'll go back into our index page here,
and we will run it.
So at the homepage,
let's say const.
Oh no, I forgot to do,
it was we forgot to actually return this data.
So let's return the hot slices and slice masters.
So very end, simply return
hot slices and slice masters.
Alright, so we'll just.
(clicks tongue)
Let's just say const the result.
We'll destructure that in a second,
and we'll say use latest data
and then we'll have to import that.
There we go.
Cause results equal to use latest data,
and we will just console.log the results.
Okay, so what's happening here?
Well we used the hook and when this sucker,
when the homepage renders out,
it's going to run this hook once.
And then that hook will in turn run this side effect,
which is a fetch request.
And then that just comes back,
turns it back into an object and then we console log it.
So if we did everything right, unlikely,
we should see a bunch of data being logged.
Let's go back to our site here.
json.parse expected character, blah, blah, blah.
Okay, so whenever you get this line one column one,
that means that you got some data back,
and you try to turn it into an object,
but it obviously wasn't json to begin with.
So how do I fix that?
I go into my network.
Let me clear this out,
refresh the page and then look for
the failed
XHR requests.
So let's filter for XHR.
They all look the same.
Oh, this is it.
So in our case, it wasn't failed XHR request.
But the result that came back was not json.
So if I click that, you can see the request.
See the request was our query
of store slices and slice masters.
And the response was nothing.
It was empty.
So, and I see exactly what it was is that we,
we tried to ping undefined as a URL.
When in reality we need to be hitting
our graph QL end point.
And I bet that's because we're using the ENV,
and we didn't restart our process.
So let's go back to our Gatsby process,
kill it, start that sucker again,
and deal with the next problem
that inevitably will come up.
All right, looks like it is running.
Give it a sec, we should see our new homepage.
There we go.
Okay, network error when attempting to fetch a resource.
Okay.
Blocked.
Let's see, let's see a request.
Response, request, response, nothing in there.
Why would it be blocked?
Oh, I bet I know.
I bet I know.
So if we
were to go to our console, here we go.
We should see some CORS issues.
The same origin policy just allows rereading from this.
And that is because we have,
in order to go to this graph QL endpoint from a URL,
we have to allow that URL in our sanity.
So let's go to, I guess we'll go to sanity.io
We'll log in.
We'll find our project, that's this one.
If, you can always double check
the project ID that you have,
yours won't be the same as mine.
Go to your, I believe settings, API
and yeah look at this.
CORS origins, hosts that can connect to the project API.
Local host 3.3.3.3 is good,
but no other, other websites are allowed to access it.
And in our case, we are local host 8.8.8.8,
and then also local hosts, 8,000.
So what we can do is add a new origin,
we'll say HTTP//localhost:
and we can just use star.
And that way it'll run on all the local hosts there.
You do want to be careful that you're not just allowing
any website to access it,
but in our case local host is fine.
Go ahead and allow credentials and add a new origin.
Now I bet if we refresh this page that arrow will go away.
Here we go.
Looks like,
use latest data,
online 36 is what we want.
There's our store settings.
And we get, there's our slice masters.
And there is our hot slices.
Good, so we know that data
is actually at least coming back from our API.
That's working just fine.
Let's hop back into this instead of console logging it,
we want to set the data to state.
So what we'll do is we'll just say set hot slices,
and that would be response.data.StoreSettings.hotSlices.
And then we also want a set.
What was the other one?
SliceMasters.slicemaster.
Oh, it's singular.
So it makes sure that is singular there.
Okay.
Now we want to see is that data being properly set to state?
So what we do here is we'll go back to this,
and we'll console log the result,
which I already have in there.
You saw earlier, it was undefined that's cause we weren't,
weren't actually setting anything to state.
But now if I refresh, still undefined.
Oh.
Oh, that's kind of interesting.
It runs three times.
First time, it's undefined, undefined.
Second time, it's hot slices and undefined,
and the third time it's everything?
That's weird.
So how would I, how would I debug that?
Well, my question is, is this,
is this effect running multiple times?
console.log fetching data.
Let's see.
That's one, no only once.
Okay.
Oh, okay.
I see, I see.
That, that makes total sense.
So what's happening is that when this thing runs,
it immediately returns the empty state.
Then when the fetch comes back, it sets hot slices first.
So that, that updates it and, that does that,
and then it also sets slice masters.
So that updates it and does it again.
There's probably some stuff you can do
so this will only run once undefined,
and once with both pieces of data,
but honestly it's not a big deal.
It's not going to give you any perf issues,
or any scary things like that,
that you see a lot of people talk about with react.
Totally fine for this thing to run three times,
or not even run three times,
but to update the state twice.
So that is our data is now showing up on here.
Then what we need to do is,
to take that data result
and pass that into each of the components.
So we can just go ahead and render that on out.
So we'll go to our current slicing and say,
slice masters, pass it in via a prop.
And that is, let's actually just destructure
this result into two things, slice masters and hot slices.
And then we'll just simply pass that as a prop.
This is one thing I wish that react would fix or not,
or make better in that,
like, if you want to pass a prop,
that's the same name as a variable,
I wish that you could just like, do like that,
where it would just like pass down the prop
as the name of the variable but unfortunately it doesn't.
We've got to get rid of this result here.
Okay.
And now I believe if we were to inspect element
on one of our components currently slicing,
we should see, good, there's a prop
of our slice masters are being passed in.
All right.
I think that's enough for this video.
In the next video, we'll figure out,
how do we actually query the rest of the data,
as well as loop over it inside of our react app.